Hello, Cloud Gurus and welcome to Exploring EC2. In this lesson,
we're going to learn what EC2 is, so let's get started.
EC2 stands for Elastic Compute Cloud.
This is an AWS service that allows you to rent virtual computers to use,
which are called EC2 instances.
You can choose lots of different EC2 types as well,
which all have different amounts of CPU, memory, storage, types, and speeds.
There are instances which are compute optimized for when you need
high-performance processes. There are memory optimized,
when you need lots of ram.
Say if you're building an application that processes large amounts of data in
memory. And there's also storage optimized instances,
which are designed for workloads that need to read and write to hard disks
really quickly. These aren't the only types of optimized instances.
There are way too many to list here,
but they are the main ones that you will encounter.
There are also a few different ways that you pay for these instances.
The most common is on-demand where you pay by the hour, or by the second,
depending on which instance type you use. With no long-term commitments.
This is one of the main features of EC2 and something I use all the time to
explain why cloud services are incredible. Let's take a look.
Say you have a task which usually takes you a day. So 24 hours,
and I'll represent that with this green bar,
this will cost you 24 multiplied by the hourly instance costs.
Let's say that's 10 cents. So it will cost you $2 40 to complete.
If this task can be broken down into smaller tasks,
which take an hour to complete, you would have 24,
one hour tasks to run.
Due to EC2 allowing you pay by the hour.
This means you can run it on 24 EC2 instances at the same time for one
hour,
and you will pay exactly the same as you would pay to run it on one instance for
24 hours. You achieved the same thing,
but it took you one hour instead of 24 hours.
And the cost to your organization was the same amount of money.
This is the power of the cloud, and what makes me so excited about it.
For some industries, this has been game changing,
and the reason why the cloud has accelerated the potential of many
organizations.
The word elastic also means that the instance is resizable.
So you can actually start by choosing a very low specification for the instance,
and if you need more Ram or CPU power, you can turn the machine off,
select a new instance type and then turn it back on,
and the instance will immediately resume,
but with the new specs you have chosen,
and this table shows just a few of the hundreds of different instance types AWS
have on offer. From the low powered T3.nano instance,
which only has two virtual CPU's and half a gig of Ram.
It only costs $0.0052 an hour to run.
All the way up to the X1E, a memory optimized instance,
powered by Intel Xeon processes,
which offers 128 virtual CPU's and almost 4,000
gigabytes of Ram and 2,
1,920 gigabytes solid state disks,
which goes for $26.69 an hour.
There's an instance type,
no matter what your workload and the immediate upgrade possibility is a
huge benefit,
that just couldn't happen in the old server rooms we used to run our servers.
Okay, that's all I have to say about EC2.
It was one of the original services AWS offered,
and you can see why it was a game changer. Thanks for watching.
If you have any questions, please let me know. Otherwise,
feel free to move on to the next lecture.