Hello, Cloud Gurus and welcome to Considering Compute.
AWS describe their own compute capability as compute for any
workload. Instances, containers, and serverless computing.
In this section,
we will cover all three of these things so you know exactly what they are about.
Compute of course, refers to using a computer, to process something.
From adding two numbers together,
to hosting multi availability zone multi-region fault tolerant version
of tic-tac-toe,
or even an online pet store compute is where the processing happens.
I'll go into the differences between all the different types of compute in their
respective lectures to follow this one, but for now,
let's just take a look at the services that AWS offer in this pillar.
Regarding instances also known as virtual machines,
a service that provides secure and resizeable virtual machines in the cloud
is known as Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud, also known as EC2.
A service which helps you run fault tolerant workloads for up to 90% of the
normal price of EC2 is Amazon EC2 Spot.
A service which can automatically add or remove computing capacity to meet your
changes in computing demand is called Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling.
And a service which provides a really easy to use cloud platform to build an
application or website is called Amazon LightSail.
Moving on to containers,
and I will explain what containers are in detail in their own lecture.
A service to run secure, reliable,
and scalable containers is Amazon Elastic Container Service also known
as ECS.
A service to store manage and deploy container images is Amazon Elastic
Container Registry, also known as ECR.
And a fully managed Kubernetes service is Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service,
also known as EKS. Regarding serverless, and again,
we'll have a whole lecture on this,
is a service which lets you run code without servers,
and that is AWS Lambda.
There are also some services called edge services,
which I won't go into during my lessons, but I'll briefly go over them here.
A service called AWS Outposts,
which lets you run your AWS services on your own servers, instead of Amazons.
There's a service that lets you bring a lot of data into AWS and that is called
the Snow Family. These are devices you can order to put files on them.
And then they're shipped back to Amazon and loaded into your AWS account.
They have devices from the size of a portable hard disk to a full semi-trailer
full of storage disks.
The snow family has a solution useful for any business trying to move to the
cloud.
There's also a service which lets you access AWS services from 5g devices
without having to go via the internet, which is super fast,
and that's AWS wavelength.
There's a service which assists in migrating your VMware workloads to AWS,
and that's called VMware Cloud on AWS.
And finally a service which lets you run that latency sensitive applications
closer to end users, and that's called AWS Local Zones.
As you can see, AWS have once again provided many different services,
which can cater to any need that you might have, which involves compute.
Now I'm going to leave this here and save the details for each service in their
specific lessons, so thank you for watching. If you have any questions,
please let me know. Otherwise feel free to move on to the next lesson.