Hello, Cloud Gurus and welcome to a brief history of AWS.
I'll begin by addressing a rumor that frequently goes around
about how AWS came to be.
Some people think that AWS was created
because Amazon had excess computing capacity
from the servers that run amazon.com
and that they wanted to make more use of those servers.
But it's not true,
with the co-author of the initial proposal
of AWS, Benjamin Black, responding to it with
"Why will that not die?
"It's totally false."
The real story is that Benjamin Black
and his manager, Chris Pinkham were exploring ways
to efficiently scale up their infrastructure.
And what I mean by that is
how could they easily make their website or application work
when accessed by a lot of people at the same time?
And traditionally to do this,
you would simply install a lot of servers
in your server room,
enough that you would be able to successfully serve
the amount of customers you have
when you hit the peak of your traffic.
So say you need 10 servers to serve 1,000 customers
and your peak traffic during a sale period like Black Friday
is 5,000 customers.
Then you need 50 servers in your server room at all times.
What they explored was
methods of separating the applications
from the infrastructure.
If they could achieve this,
it would be easier to manage both the applications
and the infrastructure running them.
And they realized they might be a lot of value in doing that
even to people outside Amazon.
And they might be able to sell the infrastructure
as a service.
They wrote up the idea
and it made its way all the way to Jeff Bezos
who greenlit the proposal.
And then they led the team to build elastic compute cloud
or EC2, which is a virtual machine as a service,
one of AWS's first products released in 2006.
Exact timelines are difficult to find,
but Amazon S3 does appear to be the first service
released by AWS in March of 2006.
This was followed by Amazon simple queue service
or SQS in July.
And then the EC2 service that I just mentioned
was released in August of 2006.
SQS had actually been around
and in use by Amazon internally since 2004.
And they realized it could be released as a managed service,
so they did so in 2006.
From then on more services were launched each year,
then each month and lately we are seeing product launches
or updates every single week of the year.
October, 2009 brought Amazon RDS a database as a service.
December, 2010 brought Route 53 a DNS service.
January, 2012, brought DynamoDB
an extremely powerful NoSQL database.
And by July, 2015, we had Code Pipeline,
a DevOps orchestration tool.
And this continues all the way to re-Invent 2020,
they announced a new service called DevOps Guru,
and it will continue through the months and years ahead.
I don't think AWS will stop releasing new services
anytime soon.
Now I will be going into more detail
about the most important of these services
throughout this course as well.
So don't worry if you aren't too sure
what I'm talking about just yet.
I will use this opportunity to point you
to our series AWS this week,
where I and a few of our other instructors
cover what AWS have released in the past 7 days.
And I don't think we've ever not had something
to talk about.
AWS are always releasing or updating something.
Alright, that's all for our brief history.
Thanks for watching.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
Otherwise feel free to move on to our 10,000 Foot Overview.