Hello Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to my lesson on What is AWS.
We covered this very briefly in the introduction lecture,
now let's go into a bit more detail.
If we begin with the Cloud itself,
the Cloud can be broadly referred to as someone else's
computer, but more realistically it's a collection
of services which create a platform.
These services might relate to virtual servers,
data storage, networking, machine learning,
security, analytics, media services, databases, and more.
All of these services come with a very specific feature set
aimed at making your organization's life easier
by hosting them for you,
instead of you having to do it yourself
in your own server room or office building.
You can pick where, in the world,
you want to run these services and access them remotely.
And you can fine tune them to do whatever you require,
and you can pay less than you normally would
hosting it yourself.
As I mentioned in our introduction,
if you'd like to learn more about what the Cloud is
please check out my resource link
to our course on introduction to Cloud computing.
In their own words, "AWS is the world's most comprehensive
"and broadly adopted cloud platform,
"offering over 175 fully featured services
"from data centers globally.
"Millions of customers,
"including the fastest growing startups,
"largest enterprises and leading government agencies
"are using AWS to lower costs,
"become more agile and innovate faster."
And I do agree with their assessment.
AWS currently holds roughly 32% of the Cloud computing
market share, with second and third place
going to Microsoft Azure, at 19, and Google Cloud at seven.
AWS is the world leader in Cloud computing,
with millions of customers using their products.
But why are they the leader?
Well, they are the oldest in the market.
They launched Amazon EC2, their virtual service service,
in 2006, and it took several years
before any other Cloud competitor responded.
They continue to iterate and launch new services, to now,
where they currently have over 175 services.
So let's take a look.
This is the list of most of their services.
I have no doubt many have been launched
since this list was compiled.
These services were specifically created
to support a wide range of technologies, industries,
and use cases from a single service,
which lets you store files and retrieve them,
to a fully managed Ground Station,
which lets you control satellites.
And I'm not joking about that last one.
AWS launched AWS Ground Station to the world in May, 2019.
So a very large customer base, a lot of services,
which you can do almost anything you need,
you can see why the world is moving to AWS.
And one thing I haven't even mentioned yet is pricing.
AWS uses pay-as-you-go pricing.
You can use one of their servers for a minute
and only be charged for that minute.
Actually, since 2017, a few AWS services
actually charge you by the second,
with most services only requiring a 60 second minimum.
You can literally use a server for 83 seconds,
and you are only charged for using it for 83 seconds.
In fact, AWS announced one of their services, called Lambda,
has switched to charging you by the millisecond,
which is amazing.
AWS's pricing model has made them a very popular choice.
That is not to say the other Cloud providers
aren't thriving too.
As I mentioned, AWS have 32% of the market,
Microsoft Azure has 19% and Google Cloud holds 7%.
Close behind that, Alibaba is at 6%
and all others combined are at 36%.
So while AWS have a sizable lead,
the others aren't too far behind.
Your choice in Cloud provider
will likely come down to what you're familiar with,
what you're educated in, and likely what the organization
you work for chooses to use.
If you're studying AWS, because your company chose it,
you are in very good company,
and it's great to have you here.
I'm going to go into more detail about the most popular
AWS services throughout this course,
so I'll finish this introduction here.
Thank you for watching.
If you have any questions please let me know,
otherwise feel free to move on to the next lesson.