Hello Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to my 10,000 foot overview of AWS.
In my What Is AWS lecture,
I showed you a list of AWS services.
I'd like to give you a little bit more structure
to that list by showing you the AWS Console,
so we get a true 10,000 foot overview.
So here it is,
the ever-changing, ever-expanding AWS Management Console.
And this is where we'll get our overview.
The first thing you'll see is a search window.
Because there are so many services,
it's simply easiest to jump straight to
the one that you need.
Below that we have some Build a solution quick links
and some documentation,
which has some step-by-step guides
to learn all about different AWS services.
If we click up here, we have a complete list of all of them.
And we'll revisit the most important of these
throughout the course.
But as an overview, I'll show you through them all now.
And just keep in mind that this list can change over time,
so it might already look different to what you see here.
Don't forget we have that Search bar at the top as well
if you can't find anything.
It starts with Compute,
and Compute refers to services
which are related to running applications
or processing things with computer power.
With AWS, this can refer to virtual servers
and serverless computing,
which I'll cover in a later lecture.
Next, we have Storage, S3, I've already mentioned
as one of the first services that AWS had available.
And we also have things like EFS, Storage Gateway,
and AWS Backup.
Then we have databases, RDS and DynamoDB being
the 2 most popular here,
and ones that you will learn about soon.
Following this, we have Migration and Transfer,
and these are a set of services
which make it easier to move to AWS
from your traditional server room.
There are specific services
that will help you move your databases, your servers,
and sync over all your data as well.
Then we go into Networking and Content Delivery,
all computers and most services in AWS need to exist
inside a network,
just like your phone or laptop connect to
a local wifi network at home or work to access the internet.
VPC is the cornerstone of this in AWS.
It's their virtual private cloud
where all your services exist.
There are also content delivery services like CloudFront
and DNS services like Route 53.
Don't be too intimidated by all of these names,
I will cover the most important ones
in their own lectures soon.
Below this we have Developer Tools,
and these all make life easier for developers
to write software and host it on AWS.
There's services to host your programming code,
to automatically build it, and to automatically install it,
or deploy it to your servers.
Then we have the Robotics section for AWS Robot Maker.
And this is a service that helps
with robotics application development.
I'm going to scroll back up,
and we have Customer Enablement services,
the most important being Support,
where you can contact AWS themselves
should you need any assistance.
Then we have Blockchain for AWS Managed Blockchain
for all your cryptocurrency and blockchain fans out there.
There's a Satellite section for the Ground Station
that I mentioned in the introduction.
And then we've got some Quantum Technologies,
this is a section for Amazon Bracket,
which provides a development environment
to design quantum algorithms,
something that I mostly don't have a single clue about.
And then we move on to Management and Governance,
which is quite important.
This includes Organizations, CloudWatch, Auto Scaling,
CloudFormation, CloudTrail, and all of these other services
which really help you manage all of your AWS
and even On-Premises infrastructure in some cases.
They are really powerful and complex products
and I'll be talking about a few of them
in this course as well.
Scrolling down a bit more, we have Media Services,
all the things related to media streaming, processing,
and transcoding, which is converting audio and video.
Now we're going to scroll all the way back up again,
we have Machine Learning.
These are all the services
that implement machine learning in some way
from automatically determining
if the code your programmers are writing is good,
to image recognition, automatic language translation,
and automatic car driving.
Then we come down to Analytics,
a very important tool in some industries
that deal with a lot of data.
Amazon Redshift is AWS's data lake service,
and Athena lets you query petabytes of data.
We'll come down a little bit more
to Security, Identity, and Compliance.
This is a huge section,
AWS have many services in this space.
Security is extremely important for anyone using the cloud,
even more so than someone hosting things
in their own server room.
You need to ensure everything you put out there
is kept secure.
AWS has services that help with authentication,
storing passwords, automatically detecting network breaches,
or noncompliance with predefined security policies
that you have defined.
They also have a few firewalls in there too.
Now we're going to scroll back up to the last column,
we have some Front-end Web and Mobile services
which help out people making websites
and mobile applications.
There's Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality section,
which for the moment only contains Amazon Samarian,
which is a managed service which lets you create
and run 3D, AR, and VR applications.
Then we have Application Integration,
which helps your AWS services
and applications work together.
SQS probably being the one you've heard about at this point,
which I mentioned in the introduction lecture as well.
Then we have Cost Management.
These are the services that help you save money
and see where all your money is going in your AWS account,
so you have your Cost Explorer and your AWS Budgets.
Then we have Customer Engagement,
which are services you can use to connect to your customers.
There's a few business applications here,
such as Alexa for Business,
and Chime, Amazon's video conferencing software.
Then we have End User Computing
and Workspaces falls under this,
which is a service that gives you
a completely virtual desktop that you can work on
from anywhere in the world.
Then we have the mighty Internet of Things
and a whole bunch of services related to helping you build
and maintain your own Internet of Things devices.
Coming towards the end,
we have some Game Development services,
which right now is just Amazon Gamelift,
a dedicated game server hosting solution.
And right at the bottom is Containers,
which is another topic
I will do an individual lecture on shortly
to explain what it's all about.
What a list.
If that hasn't overwhelmed you, then I'm not sure what will.
And by the time you watch this video,
I don't doubt for a second that AWS have added one
or even 10 more things to that list of services.
They are always iterating
and they are always finding new services
to create for their customers.
Throughout this course as I mentioned,
I will be covering a lot of these at a high level
to show you what they do and how easy AWS
have made it to achieve some very powerful things.
Okay, that's all for my overview,
thank you for watching.
If you have any questions, please let me know,
otherwise feel free to move on to the next lesson.