Hello, Cloud Gurus and welcome to Seeking Security and Identity.
This is the first lesson of our service summary chapters.
Congratulations for making it through the introduction,
and I hope you're ready to get started.
The first videos in each section will be an overview of the particular pillar.
In this case, security and identity, as it pertains to AWS,
and then we'll look at a few of the most important services that relate to that
particular pillar. In this lesson today,
we're going to talk about security and identity. So let's get started.
Probably the most important part of moving to or building your applications in
the cloud, is security.
You need to make sure your data and infrastructure is protected,
and you need to ensure that any potential threats against them are being
detected. In regards to identity,
you need to make sure that those who do have access to your systems,
can only access what they need to access. AWS of course,
have various solutions to implement what I just mentioned,
which can be used in different ways to do different things.
So let's take a look at the services that they have available.
Regarding data protection,
a service to discover and protect your sensitive data, is Amazon Macie.
A service to store and manage encryption keys is AWS Key Management
Service.
A service for hardware-based key storage and regulatory compliance is
AWS CloudHSM. A service to provision,
manage, and deploy SSL and TLS security certificates,
is AWS Certificates Manager. And a service to rotate, manage,
and retrieve secrets like passwords is AWS Secrets Manager.
Now let's take a look at infrastructure protection.
A service for denial of service protection is AWS Shield.
A service to filter malicious website traffic,
is AWS Web Application Firewall or WAF.
And a service to centrally manage firewall rules is AWS Firewall Manager.
Let's take a look at threat detection.
A service that automatically detects threats is Amazon Guard Duty.
A service to analyze application security is Amazon Inspector.
A service to record and evaluate configurations of your AWS resources
is AWS Config.
And a service to track user activity and API usage in your account is
AWS CloudTrail.
And finally identity management services.
A service to securely manage access to your AWS accounts,
services and resources is AWS Identity and Access Management,
better known as IAM.
A service to implement cloud single sign-on is AWS Single sign-on.
A service to manage identity inside applications you
have made such as users logging in is Amazon Cognito.
And a service to implement and manage Microsoft Active Directory is AWS
Directory Service.
And a service to centrally govern and manage multiple AWS accounts in
one place is AWS Organizations.
You can see in just the small pillar of security and identity,
I've already listed 18 different services AWS have available for you,
to protect your AWS accounts and all of the resources within them.
AWS has many solutions available, no matter what you are trying to achieve.
Now,
we're going to go a little bit more in-depth with a few of these services now.
So thank you for watching. If you have any questions, please let me know.
Otherwise feel free to move on to the next lesson.