Hello, Cloud Gurus and welcome to Regions and Availability Zones.
AWS has the concept of a region, which is a physical location,
somewhere in the world, where they put their data centers,
which have the servers that host all of their services. Currently,
AWS has regions in North America, South America, Europe,
the Middle East, Africa, and the Asia Pacific.
Now I'm going to show you where all of these regions are. We start with Ohio,
Oregon, North California, North Virginia,
and then we have GovCloud West and GovCloud East,
which are 2 services for government departments to use.
The general public cant use those 2. Then there's Canada Central,
Sau Paulo, Frankfurt, London,
Paris, Bahrain, Ireland, Milan,
Stockholm, Cape Town, Singapore,
Beijing, Sydney, Tokyo,
Seoul Ningxia, Osaka,
which is a local region, Mumbai and Hong Kong. And as they're
ever-growing, while I was making this slide,
a new Melbourne Australia region has been announced as well.
Now let's have a look at availability zones. Inside a region,
we have what AWS calls, availability zones.
Each region has multiple isolated and physically separate
availability zones in a geographic area.
They all have independent power, cooling, and physical security,
and they're all connected to each other via redundant, ultra high speed,
and low latency networks. So we'll look at my example here,
and don't take these too seriously because AWS don't advertise exactly where
their data centers are to keep them more secure.
So this is just a complete guess. So let's say in the Sydney region,
which is AP Southeast 2,
AWS have 6 data centers around the city.
So there's our 6, and AWS will group them into the North,
the South and the West availability zones,
and will give them each a name,
but these names are not shared between users or AWS accounts.
For example, in my account,
I will have the West availability zone called AP Southeast 2
a. North will be 2 b and South will be 2 c,
but in your account, this won't be the same. It's possible it could be the same,
but they are randomly generated. So in your account,
you will be 2 c in the West, 2 a in the North,
and 2 b in the South.
This occurs in every availability zone around the world to ensure that people
aren't always just using availability zone a or b for their infrastructure.
They want everything spread out across all of their availability zones.
Now what's the purpose of having these availability zones? Well redundancy.
If you split your AWS services across all of these availability zones,
you will protect your AWS workloads from any issues that might arise in a single
data center.
It's unlikely that all six of these data centers will lose power at the same
time, or be hit with any kind of local infrastructure issue.
AWS make these available so you can protect your infrastructure against any
issues that may occur. Okay, that's all for regions and availability zones,
and for the introduction section of this course.
Thank you for watching. If you have any questions, please let me know.
Otherwise, feel free to move on to the next section.