Hello, Cloud Gurus and welcome to Demonstrating Directory Service.
Do you log into a computer before using it? I'm sure you do most.
If not all people will have a username and password to be able to log into
their computer, whether it be a home laptop or a work PC.
When an organization sets up their office computers or laptops for their workers
to log in and do their work, they will generally use a directory,
which is a database of people.
It contains all the login information for all the users on the network who might
log into that computer. When you type your username and password,
they are checked against this directory to see if you're allowed in.
And it also has extra features such as the ability to implement security
policies and configure the PC that you're logging into in a certain way,
like automatically putting folders on your desktop,
which linked to shared storage spaces on your company file server.
Users can also be put into groups,
so the desktop shortcuts that you see might be different to the desktop
shortcuts that the CEO sees when he logs into his computer.
Currently,
Microsoft windows is the dominating desktop operating system in the world.
In July, 2020,
it still holds 77.74% of the market share,
which is huge.
And these translates into a huge market share in the offices around the world,
which might be even higher because more people use windows at work.
This means a lot of people log into windows, computers around the world.
To cater for this,
Microsoft have provided a directory service called Microsoft Active Directory.
It has been included with windows service software since 2000,
so 20 years now. And there are tens of thousands of companies using it,
maybe even more, so you can see why AWS might want to help out.
And this is where AWS Directory Service comes in.
Directory Service is a managed service offering from AWS,
which provides the directories for you without having to run the servers
yourself.
AWS Directory Service can provide a specific managed Microsoft active
directory,
as well as a simple active directory option for when you don't need all the
options that Microsoft active directory provides.
And it also has an AD connector,
which is used to allow your on-premises users to log into their AWS
applications with their active directory credentials. And not only that,
usually to ensure your users can always log in,
you would normally have to build multiple servers or running a
distributed active directory, so it continues to work if one server fails.
If anything fails,
the service automatically replaces the failed server with a working one.
Also,
in addition to the benefits of having your active directory hosted for you,
AWS managed Microsoft Active Directory is also compatible with other
AWS services.
This means your users can also use their account credentials for Amazon
Chime,
the video conferencing software and your databases can even use it to which are
the ones listed here as RDS.
So a whole bunch of services that can use the service too, which is awesome.
So that's about it for AWS Directory Service. It's a managed solution,
so you don't have to run your own directory service from Microsoft Active
Directory. Thank you for watching. If you have any questions,
please let me know. Otherwise feel free to move on.